notes from telecon on 2018 / 03 / 19
------------------------------------

participants: Andrews, Birnstiel, Carpenter, Dullemond, Huang, Hughes, Isella, 
              Oberg, Perez, Wilner
unavailable: Bai, Benisty, Guzman, Ricci, Zhu

- update on data delivery:
	- as of last Tuesday, all of the data were formally delivered

- update on data calibration:
	- the group of us doing calibration have had a separate telecon series 
	  that discussed the findings from preliminary calibrations and settled 
	  on a homogenized post-processing and self-calibration strategy
	- Jane has developed template scripts and a suite of auxiliary modules 
	  that aid in the calibration; you can find these in the 
	  reduction_scripts directory of the github repo (look for anything 
	  with the name "TARGET_contselfcal_xx.py" where TARGET is the disk 
	  name and 'xx' is either 'jh' or 'sa'.  
	- For anyone doing the calibration, please stick to the format, naming 
	  scheme, and steps of these template scripts closely: if you do not, 
	  we will have to re-do the calibration for you (keep in mind that the 
  	  point of homogenizing this is for delivery to the community)
	- The 'Calibration' wiki page has been updated and will be kept up to 
	  date until calibration is completed.  A new table lists the source, 
	  the person responsible for calibration, the current status, a link to 
	  the script in the repo, and if the status is FINISHED you will find a 
	  link (to the staging webpage) for the calibrated continuum MS, a FITS 
	  image, and a PNG of the image.  Any imaging or analysis for this 
	  project will subsequently use the MS files linked from here.


**Discussion of ALMA Cycle 6 (and other) proposals**

- On the 'Proposals' wiki page, there are effectively two categories of ALMA
  proposal ideas: (1) "mature" cases (where a PI has committed to at least 
  investigate the idea further); and (2) "ideas" (where it would be good to 
  follow through, but the plans are either still very fluid and/or a PI has not
  been identified or committed to investigate or write things up).

- If you want to be kept in the loop on any proposal, please *ADD YOUR NAME* as 
  a co-I as soon as possible.

- If you feel conflicted about anything, please contact the PIs.  

- We will arrange another telecon about 2 weeks from now.  The intent there is 
  that we will know which proposals are going to forward, and for those that 
  are we will have a concrete sample, technical strategy / requirements.  
	- Sean will circulate a poll for the time / date.


> "Mature" Proposals
	- high-resolution B3 follow-ups 
		- Laura will lead
		- goal is to constrain particle populations (and optical depths)
		  in and around the substructures
		- RMS noise target is ~10 uJy/beam; C43-10 = 50 mas beam
		- aiming for 20 +/- 10 hours total
		- focus on targets that show high-contrast substructures, for 
		  feasibility; will look into including HCO+(1-0), CS(2-1), etc.
		- arguments already fleshed out (pilot filler in Cycle 5)
		- note: its not possible to actually match the B6 survey 
	  	  sensitivity (that would require a B3 RMS of ~1.5 uJy/beam).  
	 	  So target selection must focus on cases with highest surface
		  brightnesses around substructures (gaps); presuming we want 
		  5-sigma detections of the emission around gaps, this means 
		  the sample should consist of targets that have B6 emission 
		  (around gaps) brighter than ~0.3-0.7 mJy/beam.  That criterion
		  will really help limit the sample.

	- high-resolution CO isotopologues for HD 143006
		- Jane will lead
		- goal is probe vortex kinematics, measure gas substructures, 
		  and look for evidence of warp implied in scattered light
		- RMS noise TBD; configurations TBD
		- aiming for ~5-10 hours
		- vortex kinematics might be difficult; cs should be of order 
		  0.5 km/s, but the nearly face-on sky projection would reduce 
	  	  that by a non-negligible geometric factor
			- Andrea will send around an advanced paper draft of 
			  hydro simulations related to this question
			- Meredith will circulate communication from Richard 
		 	  Nelson on temperature perturbations in vortex 
		- we still need to image the CO data we already have (and that 
		  will take about a week of work by itself, plus simulations)

	- CO isotopologue imaging of large-scale RU Lup spirals
		- Jane will lead
		- goal is to map out ~1000 au spirals in various lines:
			- B6 12CO / 13CO / C18O / DCO+
		- RMS noise, configurations already worked out from DDT attempt
			- will add an ACA component now in general proposal
		- total time is ~2h on 12m (in 2 configurations), aiming for 
		  ~0.2", and up to ~3h with ACA
		- team concurred with adding Megan Ansdell (UC Berkeley) to the 
		  proposal team; Jonathan Williams (Hawaii) already involved

	- chemistry and structure *Large Program*
		- Karin will lead; Vivi, Ted Bergin (Michigan), Catherine Walsh 
		  (Leeds) will be co-PIs; might add an EA co-PI as well
		- goal is to map out a full suite of molecular emission at 
		  ~0.15" for a sample that has a representative range of dust
		  structures
		- B6 (C40-5/6), B3 (C40-7/8), and possible B5 (config TBD)
		- CO isotopologues, N2H+, DCO+, HCO+, H13CO+, C2H, HCN, HC3N, 
		  CH3CN; >=2 lines per molecule for excitation
		- RMS noise level TBD; aiming for 4-5 spectral setups per 
		  target, total time in the 70-100hr range (~15hr / target)
		- MWC 480, HD 163296, AS 209, IM Lup, GM Aur (possibly adding
		  DM Tau, Elias 27, GW Lup if time permits)
		- big unknown at this point is B3 strategy

	- gas vertical structure
		- Andrea or Erik will lead
		- goal is to measure the vertical distribution of gas emitting
		  layers (+non-thermal linewidths), which can be compared with 
		  the work being done now with the dust scale height to provide
		  multiple independent constraints on turbulence
		- B6 (C40-8/9), 12CO / 13CO / C18O (we already have 12CO)
		- RMS noise, spectral and spatial resolution TBD
		- important to figure out what we already have first
		- focus on more edge-on targets: 
			- MY Lup, HD 142666 best cases due to low contamination
				- (but they're relatively small / faint)
			- DoAr 25 is larger + flared, but stronger cloud


> Additional "Ideas"
	- pilot survey of Class I disk substructures
		- no leader identified
		- goal is to see when the substructures originate, and thereby
		  to help understand the mechanisms responsible
		- strategy is identical to our LP: aim for ~6-12 targets
			- B6, C43-5/6 + C43-9/10, ~1.5-2hr / target
		- key issue is the sample: 
			- Oph Class Is in Lucas Cieza's survey; Pat Sheehan has
			  been working with these too; we're all uncertain 
			  about the Lup Class I population
			- if someone can conjure a sample, Sean can write this
				- might consider reaching out to e.g., Pat, and
				  seeing if a collaboration is worthwhile

	- pilot survey of substructures in fainter disks
		- John will lead (?)
		- goal is to find out if the fainter, smaller disks also show
		  (inner disk) substructures
		- strategy is identical to our LP
		- sample size is uncertain; Oph will be followed up by Cieza's
		  group, but there are also plenty of targets in Lupus

	- pilot survey of transition disk substructures
		- no leader identified
		- goal is to see the substructures in transition disks
		- strategy is identical to our LP
		- target selection would be made from previously-resolved 
		  transition disk rings (could be supplemented based on SED)
		- some political discomfort with van der Marel's efforts, even 
		  if her focus has been different enough to mitigate technical
		  duplications

	- pilot survey of structures in "close" binaries
		- no leader identified (we forgot to discuss this!)
		- goal is to identify spirals or other perturbations on the 
		  structures in binaries with projected separations <~100au 
		  (like HT Lup or AS 205 in our current sample)
			- it is not clear what spirals tell us...but if it were,
			  this would be a super easy proposal to write
		- strategy is identical to our LP
		- sample can be culled from the literature with a little work

	- polarization and substructures
		- Chat Hull (NAOJ) wants to lead; Laura is primary LP contact
		- goal is to figure out how substructures influence the 
		  polarization signatures (?)
		- B6 only; ~0.1-0.2" resolution (so bigger structures)
		- maybe 2 targets: Elias 27, AS 209
		- RMS / observing time TBD:
			- at similar resolution, the Elias 27 spirals are 
			  2-3 mJy/beam: if you want SNR = 10 for 1% PI, that 
			  means you need an RMS = 2-3 uJy/beam.  The brighter 
			  core is ~10 mJy/beam, so you need RMS = 10 uJy/beam.
			- at similar resolution, the AS 209 outer rings are 
			  basically the same brightness.  
			- so, this could take a lot of time...
		- Laura will explore / develop a bit more with Chat

	- high-resolution CO isotopologues for disk substructures / kinematics
		- Andrea will lead (?)
		- goal is to find and quantify substructures in the gas disks, 
		  and to search for evidence of non-Keplerian kinematics that 
		  would herald real pressure traps
		- B6 12CO / 13CO / C18O; C43-5/6 + C43-9/10 ?
		- sensitivity / strategy TBD: need models and a look at the CO
		  data we already have
		- AS 209 probably the best target
		- Andrea working on feasibility estimates

> *Other Stuff*
	- Keck + vortex coronagraph companion search
		- Dimitri Mawet (Caltech / JPL) intends to look for (planetary)
		  companions from among our sample; proposal deadline in April, 
		  presumably for semester starting in late summer
		- he has access to northern targets (not really Lupus)
		- this competes (potentially) with Laura's ond Myriam's ongoing 
		  VLT/NaCo work, but there is room to do both
		- I have asked Luca to tell Dimitri there will be some folks
		  interested in joining this if he proceeds

	- Sean will inquire if Luca is still intending to lead a JWST proposal
	  to search for HD 163296 companions

	- Rich Teague and Ted Bergin (Michigan) contacted us to feel out a 
	  potential collaboration to image CO isotopologues at very high 
	  resolution (about 15hr / target)
		- their emphasis is looking for kinematic features that can 
		  reveal information about planetary perturbers
		- they are debating whether or not to extend their ~40hr idea 
		  into a LP: to do the latter, they probably need information 
		  from our LP to write a compelling science / technical case
		- Sean will talk to them Thursday morning (March 22); we will
		  not be allowing them data access in any case, but the 
		  question is whether or not there are useful targets to join 
		  forces on that do not conflict with either the chemistry LP
		  idea or Jane/Andrea's own high-resolution line proposal ideas
		- Sean will report on outcome of that discussion
