notes from telecon on 2018 / 02 / 12
------------------------------------

participants: Andrews, Birnstiel, Carpenter, Guzman, Huang, Isella, Oberg, 
              Perez, Ricci, Wilner, Zhu

unavailable: Bai, Benisty, Dullemond

- update on data delivery:
	- RU Lup, IM Lup, HD 143006, Sz 114 were delivered since last telecon
	- Sz 129 went into pipeline on 12/20, but NAASC has not delivered it:
		- they ought to have calibrated MS, but they have only provided
	  	  me access to the raw ASDM files
		- maybe this will change once archive re-opens tomorrow?
	- last two sources, AS 205 and DoAr 25, have had their raw ASDMs made
	  available to me; I do not know if I can expect the calibrated MS 
	  files they at one time had, nor if we have access to semipass data
	- Tony Remijan is apparently no longer responding to my helpdesk 
	  tickets or emails
	- Laura's B3 followup program observed IM Lup and HT Lup (+AS 205 with
	  short baselines only): no data delivered yet

- update on data calibration:
	- we have preliminary calibrations for pretty much everything, usually 
	  done by more than 1 person independently
	- a calibration telecon last week, to discuss lingering concerns and 
	  identify a few tests that are finished and/or underway
	- we will release our final calibrated MS files when the data are 
	  released 
	- there is a live document hashing out a homogenized (self-)calibration 
	  strategy; will freeze that on 2/14 and then issue a *proposed*
	  strategy and time for comment until ~Monday 2-4pm~, next calibration 
	  telecon.  Then we will vote on amendments / adjustments and solidify 
	  the path forward.  From there, (self-)calibration ought to follow 
	  these practices unless there's a concrete reason for deviation and 
	  logical avenue for adjustments.  
	- goal is to have everything calibrated and available in a few weeks 
	  (and then to focus on imaging + **science**)

- update on science projects:
	- Laura will have a (mostly complete) SED catalog available soon
	- Vivi: AS 209 modeling; concentric Gaussian rings, did a real fit, the
	  model is pretty good even if not yet converged; 7 rings, hexagonal 
	  shape is an artifact; residuals are spatially asymmetric, but might 
	  want to explore using offset parameters in the inference; a new data
	  set with intermediate spacings will be available on 2/18
	- Andrea: Erik Weaver running some preliminary models of nearly edge-on
	  disks to set up initial model; want to fit for scale height of cont, 
	  and compare with gas if possible (MY Lup, HD 142666, DoAr 25)
	- Andrea: HD 163296; weird arc, asymmetry, about 10 au gap (new), 
          asymmetry possibly due to flaring; the 2nd ring might be eccentric.  
          on arc-let: is vortex decoupled from pressure bump?  (look at Ricci 
          paper); Zhu, could it be horseshoe region and not a vortex.

- ALMA Cycle 6 proposal ideas:
	- continued Band 3 followup (Laura)
	- John: fainter disks, (but only 8km in B7)
	- Andrea: solar system analogues
	- orthogonal sample? (TDs, faint disks, multiples, Class Is?)
	- spectral lines: CO isotopologues (Jane)
	- polarization?
	- look for a new wiki page for you to input ideas / plans

- misc:
	- early summer science meeting?  
	- Sean will send out poll for June dates.  Please respond!
